WARNING

Evolution 1.1.2 is a BETA quality release.  This means that it has
bugs, including possibly destructive bugs that can cause valuable data
to be lost.

For this reason, please make sure you back up your mail and your
calendar/addressbook information before using Evolution 1.1.2 on them.
In particular, you are strongly advised to backup the `evolution'
directory in your home directory if you are upgrading from a 1.0.x
version of Evolution to Evolution 1.1.2.


UPGRADING FROM 1.0.x

The format of certain configuration files has changed in this version
of Evolution.  When you start Evolution 1.1.2 for the first time, it
will automatically migrate your configuration so that it will work as
expected with this version.

IMPORTANT: After you have succesfully installed Evolution 1.1.2,
please make sure that Evolution 1.0.x isn't running anymore and type
command `killev' on the command-line (without quotes) before launching
the new version of Evolution.


RETURNING TO 1.0.x

If you want to return to a 1.0.x version after trying 1.1.2, you have
to restore the original configuration files.  From the command-line,
you can do the following, after having quit Evolution:

	killev
	cd ~/evolution
	mv filters.xml.bak-1.0 filters.xml
	mv vfolders.xml.bak-1.0 vfolders.xml
	mv shortcuts.xml.bak-1.0 shortcuts.xml
	mv mail/imap.bak-1.0 mail/imap

Note that any changes to filters, vfolders or shortcuts made with
1.1.2 will be lost after this operation.

Also note that the upgrade mechanism runs automatically only the first
time you run 1.1.2.  For this reason, if you run Evolution 1.1.2, then
go back to 1.0 using the aforementioned procedure, and then go back to
using 1.1.2 again, the settings will not be upgraded.

To force the upgrade to happen again in this case, use the following
command to start Evolution 1.1.2:

	evolution --force-upgrade

IMPORTANT: After you have succesfully installed Evolution 1.0.x,
please make sure that Evolution 1.1.2 isn't running anymore and type
command `killev' on the command-line (without quotes) before launching
the older version of Evolution.


SEARCH CRITERIA CHANGES

When you specify multiple words in search "contains" criterion,
Evolution will now search the mail messages that contain all the words
specified, in any order.  (The 1.0.x behavior was to look for the
whole string in "subject contains" matches, and matched no messages in
the case of body searches.)

This applies to the search bar, the filter rules and the vfolder
rules.  Filter rules and vfolder rules might need to be re-adjusted
after you upgrade to version 1.1.2.


IMAP FOLDER NAME CHANGES (I18N)

If you created any folder names using non-ASCII characters using prior
versions of Evolution, you will find they may not be displayed
properly anymore.  This is because previous versions did not implement
IMAP I18N folder names correctly as specified in RFC 2060.

The upgrade script will try to rectify any filters or vfolders using
any such names.  However, as it does not know the character set used
by the server, non ISO-8859-1 (latin-1) characters will not be
properly converted.  You may need to reverify the filter and vFolder
rules in this case.

Also note that if such folder names do not display properly that it is
purely cosmetic and may be fixed by renaming the folder(s) in
question.

